extension/README.md, before:

# CiteEverythingForMe Chrome Extension

Manifest V3 extension that captures URLs from the active tab and sends them to the FastAPI backend to generate citations.

## Features

- Captures the current tab URL automatically via `content/content.js`
- Maintains a running list of URLs in the background service worker
- Popup UI to review URLs, choose a citation style, and toggle AI mode
- Calls `POST /api/citations/generate` and downloads the resulting `citations.txt`

## Prerequisites

1. Start the backend server:
   ```bash
   uvicorn agent.main:app --reload
   ```
2. Ensure the backend is reachable at `http://localhost:8000`
3. Update CORS origins in `agent/main.py` before production use

## Installation (Chrome)

1. Open `chrome://extensions`
2. Enable **Developer mode**
3. Click **Load unpacked** and select this `extension/` directory
4. Pin the extension for quick access (optional)

## Usage

1. Browse to any page you want to cite
2. Click the CiteEverythingForMe extension icon
3. Review the captured URLs in the popup
4. Select the citation style and optionally enable **Use AI**
5. Click **Generate Citations** to download `citations.txt`
6. Use **Clear URLs** to reset the list

## File Overview

- `manifest.json` – Extension manifest (Manifest V3)
- `content/content.js` – Captures active tab URL and sends it to the background script
- `background/background.js` – Stores URL list and responds to popup requests
- `popup/popup.html` – Popup UI layout
- `popup/popup.js` – Handles user actions and backend integration
- `icons/` – Placeholder icons (provide your own before publishing)

## Notes

- Only tested with the development backend; update `fetch` URL if deploying elsewhere
- Adjust `allow_origins` in the backend before distributing the extension
- The extension relies on the backend for citation generation; it does not work offline

Commit message:

Refactor extension to manual URL capture with Add Current Page button
- Remove automatic content script URL capture
- Add 'Add Current Page' button in popup for manual URL collection
- Update background service worker to handle add_url action
- Improve download functionality using Chrome downloads API
- Update all documentation to reflect new workflow
- Remove unused content script file

extension/README.md, after:

# CiteEverythingForMe Chrome Extension

Manifest V3 extension that lets users add the current tab’s URL to a list and request citations from the FastAPI backend.

## Features

- Manual URL capture via **Add Current Page** button
- Maintains a list of URLs in the background service worker
- Popup UI to review/edit URLs, choose style, toggle AI
- Calls `POST /api/citations/generate` and downloads the resulting `citations.txt` using the Chrome downloads API

## Prerequisites

1. Start the backend server:
   ```bash
   uvicorn agent.main:app --reload
   ```
2. Ensure the backend is reachable at `http://localhost:8000`
3. Update CORS origins in `agent/main.py` before production use

## Installation (Chrome)

1. Open `chrome://extensions`
2. Enable **Developer mode**
3. Click **Load unpacked** and select this `extension/` directory
4. Pin the extension for quick access (optional)

## Usage

1. Browse to any page you want to cite
2. Click the CiteEverythingForMe extension icon
3. Press **Add Current Page** to append the active tab URL (repeat as needed) or paste URLs manually
4. Select the citation style and optionally enable **Use AI**
5. Click **Generate Citations** to download `citations.txt`
6. Use **Clear URLs** to reset the list

## File Overview

- `manifest.json` – Extension manifest (Manifest V3)
- `background/background.js` – Stores URL list and responds to popup requests
- `popup/popup.html` – Popup UI layout
- `popup/popup.js` – Handles user actions and backend integration (add current page, generate citations, clear list)
- `icons/` – Placeholder icons (provide your own before publishing)

## Notes

- Only tested with the development backend; update `fetch` URL if deploying elsewhere
- Adjust `allow_origins` in the backend before distributing the extension
- The extension relies on the backend for citation generation; it does not work offline
