README.md, before:

# CiteEverythingForMe

AI-assisted academic citation generation for the web. A Manifest V3 Chrome extension captures every page you visit and a FastAPI backend formats citations across UNSW Harvard, Harvard, APA, MLA, Chicago, IEEE, and Vancouver styles. Download a single `citations.txt` file in one click.

## Key features

- Manifest V3 extension automatically accumulates URLs from active tabs
- Bulk citation generation via `POST /api/citations/generate`
- Optional ConnectOnion AI mode for natural-language citation requests
- Robust author extraction (meta tags, JSON-LD, bylines, domain fallback)
- Chrome downloads API delivers a ready-to-use `citations.txt`

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+
- Google Chrome (or Chromium-based browser)
- Git

## Install and set up the backend service

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd CiteEverythingForMe

# Create and activate a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate         # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies (fastapi, uvicorn, connectonion, etc.)
pip install -r requirements.txt

# (Optional) install dev extras (pytest, linting)
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

## Start the backend

```bash
uvicorn agent.main:app --reload
```

- API root: `http://localhost:8000`
- Swagger UI: `http://localhost:8000/docs`
- Health check: `http://localhost:8000/health`

> **CORS**: During development we allow all origins (`*`). Before distributing the extension, set `allow_origins` in `agent/main.py` to your extension ID, e.g. `"chrome-extension://<extension-id>"`.

## Install the Chrome extension

1. Open `chrome://extensions`
2. Enable **Developer mode**
3. Click **Load unpacked** and choose the `extension/` directory
4. (Optional) Pin the CiteEverythingForMe icon for quick access

_Placeholder icons are provided in `extension/icons/`; replace them with branded assets before publishing._

## Use the extension

1. Browse to any page you want to cite — the content script sends the URL to the background service worker.
2. Click the extension icon to open the popup. Every captured URL appears one per line in the textarea (you can add, edit, or remove entries manually).
3. Choose citation style and toggle **Use AI** if desired.
4. Click **Generate Citations**. The popup posts the full URL list to the backend and downloads `citations.txt` via the Chrome downloads API.
5. Use **Clear URLs** to reset the list before starting a new batch.

### Use the REST API directly

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/api/citations/generate" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "urls": ["https://example.com", "https://example.org"],
    "style": "unsw",
    "use_ai": false
  }' \
  --output citations.txt
```

- `use_ai: true` routes the request through the ConnectOnion agent (no extra `query` field needed)
- `GET /api/citations/styles` returns the supported styles list

## Project layout

```
shared/            # Citation engine shared by backend & extension
agent/             # FastAPI app (main.py), ConnectOnion integration (agent_setup.py), request models (models.py), tools/
extension/         # Manifest V3 browser extension
 docs/             # Prompt, UNSW notes, usage instructions
tests/             # Unit tests covering the shared engine and API
```

### Notable files

- `agent/main.py` – FastAPI endpoints (`/api/citations/generate`, `/api/citations/styles`, `/health`)
- `agent/agent_setup.py` – ConnectOnion agent creation (`generate_citation_ai_with_urls`)
- `shared/citation_generator.py` – Citation logic (author extraction, formatting helpers)
- `extension/popup/popup.js` – Popup controller (URL list, fetch, Chrome downloads integration)

## Documentation

- Extension install & behavior: `extension/README.md`
- Usage guide: `docs/USAGE_GUIDE.md`
- UNSW Harvard referencing notes: `docs/UNSW_Harvard_referencing.md`
- ConnectOnion prompt: `docs/prompt.md`

## Troubleshooting

- **"Error generating citations"**: Ensure `uvicorn agent.main:app --reload` is running and reachable.
- **CORS errors**: Adjust `allow_origins` in `agent/main.py` to match your extension ID (or `*` for dev).
- **Missing URLs in popup**: Only tabs opened/visited after loading the extension are captured; use **Clear URLs** if the list contains stale entries.
- **AI mode behaves unexpectedly**: Check uvicorn logs—any exceptions are surfaced inline in the generated text file.

## Testing

```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
pytest
```

- `tests/test_citation_generator.py` exercises the shared citation engine.
- `tests/test_api.py` uses FastAPI’s TestClient to verify deterministic and AI citation generation.

## Contributing & license

Contributions are welcome—feel free to open issues or pull requests. Licensed under the MIT License (`LICENSE`).

Commit message:

Refactor extension to manual URL capture with Add Current Page button
- Remove automatic content script URL capture
- Add 'Add Current Page' button in popup for manual URL collection
- Update background service worker to handle add_url action
- Improve download functionality using Chrome downloads API
- Update all documentation to reflect new workflow
- Remove unused content script file

README.md, after:

# CiteEverythingForMe

AI-assisted academic citation generation for the web. A Manifest V3 Chrome extension captures every page you visit and a FastAPI backend formats citations across UNSW Harvard, Harvard, APA, MLA, Chicago, IEEE, and Vancouver styles. Download a single `citations.txt` file in one click.

## Key features

- Manifest V3 extension automatically accumulates URLs from active tabs
- Bulk citation generation via `POST /api/citations/generate`
- Optional ConnectOnion AI mode for natural-language citation requests
- Robust author extraction (meta tags, JSON-LD, bylines, domain fallback)
- Chrome downloads API delivers a ready-to-use `citations.txt`

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+
- Google Chrome (or Chromium-based browser)
- Git

## Install and set up the backend service

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd CiteEverythingForMe

# Create and activate a virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate         # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies (fastapi, uvicorn, connectonion, etc.)
pip install -r requirements.txt

# (Optional) install dev extras (pytest, linting)
pip install -e ".[dev]"
```

## Start the backend

```bash
uvicorn agent.main:app --reload
```

- API root: `http://localhost:8000`
- Swagger UI: `http://localhost:8000/docs`
- Health check: `http://localhost:8000/health`

> **CORS**: During development we allow all origins (`*`). Before distributing the extension, set `allow_origins` in `agent/main.py` to your extension ID, e.g. `"chrome-extension://<extension-id>"`.

## Install the Chrome extension

1. Open `chrome://extensions`
2. Enable **Developer mode**
3. Click **Load unpacked** and choose the `extension/` directory
4. (Optional) Pin the CiteEverythingForMe icon for quick access

_Placeholder icons are provided in `extension/icons/`; replace them with branded assets before publishing._

## Use the extension

1. Browse to a page you want to cite and click the extension icon.
2. Press **Add Current Page** to capture the active tab URL (repeat on as many tabs as you like). You can also paste or edit URLs manually—one per line.
3. Choose citation style and toggle **Use AI** if desired.
4. Click **Generate Citations** to download `citations.txt` via the Chrome downloads API.
5. Use **Clear URLs** to reset the list before starting a new batch.

### Use the REST API directly

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/api/citations/generate" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "urls": ["https://example.com", "https://example.org"],
    "style": "unsw",
    "use_ai": false
  }' \
  --output citations.txt
```

- `use_ai: true` routes the request through the ConnectOnion agent (no extra `query` field needed)
- `GET /api/citations/styles` returns the supported styles list

## Project layout

```
shared/            # Citation engine shared by backend & extension
agent/             # FastAPI app (main.py), ConnectOnion integration (agent_setup.py), request models (models.py), tools/
extension/         # Manifest V3 browser extension
 docs/             # Prompt, UNSW notes, usage instructions
tests/             # Unit tests covering the shared engine and API
```

### Notable files

- `agent/main.py` – FastAPI endpoints (`/api/citations/generate`, `/api/citations/styles`, `/health`)
- `agent/agent_setup.py` – ConnectOnion agent creation (`generate_citation_ai_with_urls`)
- `shared/citation_generator.py` – Citation logic (author extraction, formatting helpers)
- `extension/popup/popup.js` – Popup controller (URL list, fetch, Chrome downloads integration)

## Documentation

- Extension install & behavior: `extension/README.md`
- Usage guide: `docs/USAGE_GUIDE.md`
- UNSW Harvard referencing notes: `docs/UNSW_Harvard_referencing.md`
- ConnectOnion prompt: `docs/prompt.md`

## Troubleshooting

- **"Error generating citations"**: Ensure `uvicorn agent.main:app --reload` is running and reachable.
- **CORS errors**: Adjust `allow_origins` in `agent/main.py` to match your extension ID (or `*` for dev).
- **Missing URLs in popup**: Only tabs opened/visited after loading the extension are captured; use **Clear URLs** if the list contains stale entries.
- **AI mode behaves unexpectedly**: Check uvicorn logs—any exceptions are surfaced inline in the generated text file.

## Testing

```bash
pip install -e ".[dev]"
pytest
```

- `tests/test_citation_generator.py` exercises the shared citation engine.
- `tests/test_api.py` uses FastAPI’s TestClient to verify deterministic and AI citation generation.

## Contributing & license

Contributions are welcome—feel free to open issues or pull requests. Licensed under the MIT License (`LICENSE`).
